Overview of Amazon Web Services AWS Whitepaper 
Publication date: August 5, 2021 (Document Details (p. 77)) 

Overview of Amazon Web Services AWS Whitepaper 
What Is Cloud Computing? 
Cloud computing is the on-demand delivery of compute power, database, storage, applications, and 
other IT resources through a cloud services platform via the Internet with pay-as-you-go pricing. 
Whether you are running applications that share photos to millions of mobile users or you’re supporting 
the critical operations of your business, a cloud services platform provides rapid access to exible and 
low-cost IT resources. With cloud computing, you don’t need to make large upfront investments in 
hardware and spend a lot of time on the heavy lifting of managing that hardware. Instead, you can 
provision exactly the right type and size of computing resources you need to power your newest bright 
idea or operate your IT department. You can access as many resources as you need, almost instantly, and 
only pay for what you use. 
Cloud computing provides a simple way to access servers, storage, databases and a broad set of 
application services over the Internet. A cloud services platform such as Amazon Web Services owns and 
maintains the network-connected hardware required for these application services, while you provision 
and use what you need via a web application. 

Overview of Amazon Web Services AWS Whitepaper 
Six Advantages of Cloud Computing 
• Trade capital expense for variable expense – Instead of having to invest heavily in data centers 
and servers before you know how you’re going to use them, you can pay only when you consume 
computing resources, and pay only for how much you consume. 
• Benet from massive economies of scale – By using cloud computing, you can achieve a lower 
variable cost than you can get on your own. Because usage from hundreds of thousands of customers 
is aggregated in the cloud, providers such as AWS can achieve higher economies of scale, which 
translates into lower pay as-you-go prices. 
• Stop guessing capacity – Eliminate guessing on your infrastructure capacity needs. When you make a 
capacity decision prior to deploying an application, you often end up either sitting on expensive idle 
resources or dealing with limited capacity. With cloud computing, these problems go away. You can 
access as much or as little capacity as you need, and scale up and down as required with only a few 
minutes’ notice. 
• Increase speed and agility – In a cloud computing environment, new IT resources are only a click away, 
which means that you reduce the time to make those resources available to your developers from 
weeks to just minutes. This results in a dramatic increase in agility for the organization, since the cost 
and time it takes to experiment and develop is signicantly lower. 
• Stop spending money running and maintaining data centers – Focus on projects that dierentiate 
your business, not the infrastructure. Cloud computing lets you focus on your own customers, rather 
than on the heavy lifting of racking, stacking, and powering servers. 
• Go global in minutes – Easily deploy your application in multiple regions around the world with just 
a few clicks. This means you can provide lower latency and a better experience for your customers at 
minimal cost. 

Overview of Amazon Web Services AWS Whitepaper 
Cloud Computing Models 
Types of Cloud Computing 
Cloud computing provides developers and IT departments with the ability to focus on what matters most 
and avoid undierentiated work such as procurement, maintenance, and capacity planning. As cloud 
computing has grown in popularity, several dierent models and deployment strategies have emerged to 
help meet specic needs of dierent users. Each type of cloud service and deployment method provides 
you with dierent levels of control, exibility, and management. Understanding the dierences between 
Infrastructure as a Service, Platform as a Service, and Software as a Service, as well as what deployment 
strategies you can use, can help you decide what set of services is right for your needs. 
Cloud Computing Models 
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) 
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) contains the basic building blocks for cloud IT and typically provides 
access to networking features, computers (virtual or on dedicated hardware), and data storage space. 
IaaS provides you with the highest level of exibility and management control over your IT resources and 
is most similar to existing IT resources that many IT departments and developers are familiar with today. 
Platform as a Service (PaaS) 
Platform as a Service (PaaS) removes the need for your organization to manage the underlying 
infrastructure (usually hardware and operating systems) and allows you to focus on the deployment 
and management of your applications. This helps you be more ecient as you don’t need to worry 
about resource procurement, capacity planning, software maintenance, patching, or any of the other 
undierentiated heavy lifting involved in running your application. 
Software as a Service (SaaS) 
Software as a Service (SaaS) provides you with a completed product that is run and managed by the 
service provider. In most cases, people referring to Software as a Service are referring to end-user 
applications. With a SaaS oering you do not have to think about how the service is maintained or how 
the underlying infrastructure is managed; you only need to think about how you will use that particular 
piece of software. A common example of a SaaS application is web-based email which you can use to 
send and receive email without having to manage feature additions to the email product or maintain the 
servers and operating systems that the email program is running on. 
Cloud Computing Deployment Models 
Cloud 
A cloud-based application is fully deployed in the cloud and all parts of the application run in the cloud. 
Applications in the cloud have either been created in the cloud or have been migrated from an existing 
infrastructure to take advantage of the benets of cloud computing. Cloud-based applications can be 
built on low-level infrastructure pieces or can use higher level services that provide abstraction from the 
management, architecting, and scaling requirements of core infrastructure. 

Overview of Amazon Web Services AWS Whitepaper 
Hybrid 
Hybrid 
A hybrid deployment is a way to connect infrastructure and applications between cloud-based 
resources and existing resources that are not located in the cloud. The most common method of hybrid 
deployment is between the cloud and existing on-premises infrastructure to extend, and grow, an 
organization's infrastructure into the cloud while connecting cloud resources to the internal system. For 
more information on how AWS can help you with your hybrid deployment, visit our Hybrid Cloud with 
AWS page. 
On-premises 
The deployment of resources on-premises, using virtualization and resource management tools, is 
sometimes called the “private cloud.” On-premises deployment doesn’t provide many of the benets of 
cloud computing but is sometimes sought for its ability to provide dedicated resources. In most cases 
this deployment model is the same as legacy IT infrastructure while using application management and 
virtualization technologies to try and increase resource utilization. For more information on how AWS 
can help, see Use case: Cloud services on-premises. 

Overview of Amazon Web Services AWS Whitepaper 
Global Infrastructure 
AWS serves over a million active customers in more than 240 countries and territories. We are steadily 
expanding global infrastructure to help our customers achieve lower latency and higher throughput, 
and to ensure that their data resides only in the AWS Region they specify. As our customers grow their 
businesses, AWS will continue to provide infrastructure that meets their global requirements. 
The AWS Cloud infrastructure is built around AWS Regions and Availability Zones. An AWS Region is a 
physical location in the world where we have multiple Availability Zones. Availability Zones consist of 
one or more discrete data centers, each with redundant power, networking, and connectivity, housed 
in separate facilities. These Availability Zones oer you the ability to operate production applications 
and databases that are more highly available, fault tolerant, and scalable than would be possible from 
a single data center. The AWS Cloud operates in 80 Availability Zones within 25 geographic Regions 
around the world, with announced plans for more Availability Zones and Regions. For more information 
on the AWS Cloud Availability Zones and AWS Regions, see AWS Global Infrastructure. 
Each Amazon Region is designed to be completely isolated from the other Amazon Regions. This 
achieves the greatest possible fault tolerance and stability. Each Availability Zone is isolated, but the 
Availability Zones in a Region are connected through low-latency links. AWS provides you with the 
exibility to place instances and store data within multiple geographic regions as well as across multiple 
Availability Zones within each AWS Region. Each Availability Zone is designed as an independent failure 
zone. This means that Availability Zones are physically separated within a typical metropolitan region 
and are located in lower risk ood plains (specic ood zone categorization varies by AWS Region). In 
addition to discrete uninterruptible power supply (UPS) and onsite backup generation facilities, data 
centers located in dierent Availability Zones are designed to be supplied by independent substations 
to reduce the risk of an event on the power grid impacting more than one Availability Zone. Availability 
Zones are all redundantly connected to multiple tier-1 transit providers. 
